

## “One-Month Free Storage” Email Campaign Project
 
In order to increase the number of online reservations for storage rentals, we launched an emailcampaign to send emails to truck and trailer customers conveying that they are qualified to get a one-month free rental at a nearby U-Haul storage center. We picked nearly 200 locations in the U.S. andCanada and updated the lists regularly based on their occupancy rate or seasonality such asschool/holiday season. However, this task required 2 hours daily to complete. Thus, I wrote a python
code to automate this process, thereby freeing up my coworker’s time. The process was as follows:
 
Use python to automate the formatting processBefore I created the automation for my coworker, he had to format the data daily before he sent out thecampaign emails through Dotdigital. It involved pulling the customer list from Uhaul.net Report Center,
downloading the list, formatting it by removing duplicates, capitalizing the first character of customers’
first and last name, and using vlookup function to add our storage location name, address, phone, URL,etc. It usually took him 1.5-2 hours every morning to finish the whole process. Afterwards, a digitalspecialist would manually concatenate UTM tracking codes to URLs in Excel. My Python automationaccomplished all those functions automatically without my coworker having to spend any time.Please refer to *the attachment* to see my actual automation python code. The functions written can besummarized as: set up the template as CSV files (Separated by In-Town and One-Way) < use PANDA toread the file (pd.read_csv)< proper case first name & Last name (str.title)< remove duplicates and invalidemail address (apply(lambda x: validate_email(x))< create City, ST for vlookup (df.merge) < separate bydifferent lists < add UTM tracking code < export the list to folders.Inspired by online information and learning from other coworkers, I gradually improved my code andadded extra functionalities, such as creating email notifications to help me monitor the automationprocess and recording the daily number of emails sent out into SQL (Structured Query Language) forfuture reference. (SQL is a special-purpose programming language designed to handle data in SQLServer, a relational database management system).
